1.  Command practice 

a)  date 
Display the current time in the given FORMAT, or set the system date.

Show current time in the system

b)  who 
Print information about users who are currently logged in.

Shows User's info

c)  whoami 
Print the user name associated with the current effective user ID.  Same as id -un.

Shows name of the user linked to currently used ID

d)  who am i 
Print information about users who are currently logged in.

Shows User's info

e)  pwd 
Print the full filename of the current working directory.

Shows the address of the current directory

f)  cd 
Change the current directory to dir.  The variable HOME is the default dir. The variable CDPATH defines the  search  path  for  the  directory  containing  dir.

Changes current location to a different directory

g)  mkdir 
Create the DIRECTORY(ies), if they do not already exist.

Makes a new directory

h)  rmdir
Remove the DIRECTORY(ies), if they are empty.

Removes directory if its empty

i)  rm 
This  manual page documents the GNU version of rm.  rm removes each specified file. By default, it does not remove directories.

Removes a file from current directory

j)  cp 
Copy SOURCE to DEST, or multiple SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY.

Copy a file to a directory

k)  mv 
Rename SOURCE to DEST, or move SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY.

Rename a file or move it to a directory

l)  ls (-l -g) 
List  information  about  the  FILEs  (the current directory by default).  Sort entries
alphabetically if none of -cftuvSUX nor --sort is specified.
-l     use a long listing format
-g     like -l, but do not list owner

Shows all the files in current directory

m)  cat 
Concatenate FILE(s), or standard input, to standard output.

Copy a file

n)  more 
more  is  a  filter  for  paging through text one screenful at a time.

Allows user to read a file one page at a time

o)  less 
Less  is  a program similar to more (1), but which allows backward movement in the file
as well as forward movement.

Allows user to read a file one page at a time and also allows them to move back a page